a gang of bandits in western america
invade towns and declare them as their
own who will stop them today we'll go
through a post-apocalyptic science
fiction western film from 1955
called steel frontier this is just my
opinion on the movie and not a
substitute for watching it links to the
movie are in the description below the
movie begins in a desert where a short
man lies dying on the ground he looks up
to see jesus but it happens to be a
skinny guy with middle parted long hair
then we notice the man isn't short but
both of his legs are cut off he asks
jesus to mercy kill him and he does the
movie's bad guys are old-fashioned
psychopathic gangsters called the death
writers death because well they kill
people and riders because they ride in a
series of questionable vehicles like
this car inside a case anyway the leader
of the group is general julius jw
quantro let's call him jw because it
sounds cooler in the movie he's supposed
to be the descendant of confederate
cavalry officer william quantro the
crazy killers go around different towns
and conquer them they threaten the
people kill one or two of them take the
town's flag down yes towns in this movie
have their own flag and then wave the
gang's flag that's it
now the town is theirs and they can do
anything they like with it in a similar
venture they reach the town called new
hope the town of new hope is a quiet and
seemingly nice place until the loud
bandits arrive at first the people seem
to be confused no one runs or hides but
they soon realize the bad guys are here
jw walks into a barbershop and asks to
get his beard shaved outside his men
tear the town apart they grab woman kill
anyone who retaliates and run around
screaming for some reason the craziest
one of them all is a man in bright
orange feathers questionable fashion
choice but even weirder is his behavior
he just follows his fellow mates around
and repeats what they say to make it
sound more dramatic amidst the scared
townspeople is a woman named sarah
looking for her son one of the thugs is
jw's son named julius he's in a red
beret and swimming goggles is this a
town invasion or the met gala finally
the police arrive the head of the police
completely ignores the chaos and goes to
the barber shop he tried to negotiate
with jw but gets hit by a bullet instead
the bullet sends him flying through the
door a little unrealistic but anything
to make the movie dramatic the gang then
goes ballistic on the other police
officers a shootout ensues a cowboy hat
wearing gangster kills several cowboy
hat-wearing civilians sarah has finally
found her son but the gangster catches
her in the end the 11-minute long fight
dies down and the death riders win they
take down new hope's flag and replace it
with their own the gangsters celebrate
by firing in the air jw's beard is
finally shaved he comes out to his men
telling him that the town is now all his
new hope has no hope now in the
following scene that jesus look alike
from the beginning of the movie rides
through the desert on his motorbike he
stops his bike midway and uses a device
to charge his gun he might have charged
his bike but it's not clear he then
hunts a small animal and eats it at
night suddenly a group of wild people
attacks him for no apparent reason they
fight for a while he shoots all of them
dead and continues eating back in new
hope the death riders abduct the town's
mayor they also make every middle-aged
man in the town stand in the line and
offer them to either join their gang or
die one mostly scared and somewhat wise
gentleman agrees to join them while the
others are killed as per the agreement
then they announced the town is under
the jurisdiction of their general jw new
hope is no longer a town but a military
base and will be run as such the thugs
think there's some kind of self-made
soldiers here to conquer the world the
following day that jesus look alike
whose name happened to be johnny uma is
looking around the desert with his
strange binoculars he sees the death
riders abducting a man trying to run
away the writers later approach yuma and
ask him if he's seen a man running why
is everyone in this movie wearing a hat
anyway yuma flees on his bike as the
riders follow him yuma's bike is as
futuristic as it gets it even lets out
bombs that attack the riders as vehicles
he manages to destroy most of them but
even his futuristic bike doesn't save
him from being caught he is then taken
to new hope with the other prisoners
he's welcomed by a skirt and antenna
wearing person the whole movie is a ball
of weird fashion choices in the town
everyone is made to work on a tire farm
they basically have to carry tires
around the whole day this is the death
writer's idea of a military base yuma is
brought in front of julius he asks yuma
who he is and is hurt when yuma replies
to his questions confidently he's used
to people being scared of him and is
intrigued by yuma's personality colonel
roy acked one of the higher class of the
thugs asks julius to duel yuma he even
gives yuma his gun back and warns him
about julius being jw's son the two
rivals stand in front of each other with
their guns as julius brings his gun out
yuma makes it fly in the air the man's
aim is perfect everyone watches in awe
as yuma catches julius's gun and
humiliates him in front of everyone
julius orders his men to kill yuma but
the commander commands otherwise they
want to include him in their team
because of his gun flying skills yuma
has to go through the welcoming ritual
that is to burn himself with a crescent
moon shaped iron rod he does that and is
officially one of the bad guys now then
the other bad guys beat the [ __ ] out of
yuma another welcoming tradition i guess
later sarah and her son are in their
home the little boy saw yuma that
morning and was impressed by him he
boasts to his mother about the man just
then one of the writers enters their
home and claims sarah as his own that is
how it works in new hope sarah has no
choice but to go with him for the sake
of her family's safety at a bar nearby
the commander introduces the names of
the gang members to yuma but yuma's eyes
land on sarah she's a damsel in distress
he's the protagonist what do you think
is gonna happen the men start playing
poker yuma of course wins all of their
money then accepts sarah as the bet he
wins that round and claims sarah as his
own but the thug who abducted her points
his gun at him not wanting to let go of
the girl however when he sees the grim
look on huma's face the man is [ __ ]
scared he claims he was joking and hands
the girl to yuma meanwhile the town's
mayor and a few other people start to
plan to fight the death riders yuma
takes sarah out of the bar and lets her
go home we see him take out a bunch of
cards from his sleeves it turns out he
cheated to get the girl sarah runs to
the little meeting the mayor is holding
they want to fight the writers but know
that they cannot win as they talk about
god sending a savior for them the camera
pans towards yuma he has been listening
to them talk the whole time but doesn't
inform the gang about their plan turns
out he's not the bad guy after all yuma
then goes to talk with colonel royakit
he tells yuma they're survivors rather
than gangsters and explains the origin
of the death riders he also says that
their leader jw is not in the town some
days one of their men comes running to
the commander informing him of the
civilians little meeting happening in
the shed the commander collects the gang
from the bar meanwhile yuma alerts sarah
and the others to run away he also asks
the other gang members to go to the shed
claiming that they have been attacked
when the first group arrives there they
don't see any civilians but the second
group sent by yuma starts shooting at
them in the same fashion a shootout
ensues between the members of death
riders how smart of our protagonist the
second group is completely destroyed by
the first one and the first group
finally notices they were fighting their
own kind then we see yuma sitting alone
looking at an old picture of what i
assume is his family he plays harmonica
while mourning their deaths it's so
obvious he isn't the one playing he
doesn't even move his hands and we never
see the instrument the following day the
thug who lost sarah to yuma approaches
sarah at the farm he takes her inside a
room and tries to force himself on her
all this while the orange feather guide
jumps in the background don't ask me why
sarah's son arrives there with a
slingshot and hits the jumping maniac
dead yes with a slingshot the other one
is about to attack the kid but is
interrupted by yuma the two get into a
fight as they do sarah shoots the thug
dead the kid hands yuma his hat after
which he leaves the commander brings
their bodies into the town tied to the
car the group suspects yuma to be the
one behind the deaths it has only been a
week he has been in the group and a
dozen of their men have died already
sarah's son is listening to them talk
from afar he runs to yuma and informs
him of the gang's plan he asks if yuma
is going to turn sarah in but yuma sees
no profit in that he knows he'll have to
fight now he walks over to the gang and
the commander asks him if he knows who
killed the two yuma doesn't say a word
and just stands there at this point
sarah is brought there too some of the
men stand in front of yuma and get ready
to fight they send sarah walking towards
yuma for no apparent reason yuma takes
two guns out of his pocket and shoots
everyone standing beside sarah within a
matter of seconds man's got good aim and
is fast as flash i would think all of
the death riders are dead but no there
is some left along with a commander in
julius they start shooting at yuma and
foolishly think he can die yuma asks
angel to start shooting angel happens to
be his voice activated gun fitted on his
bike it shoots and kills some more men
causing a shootout again yuma gets shot
in the commotion and is caught by one of
them somehow both of them do not have
their guns so now they have to throw
hands elongating the movie by at least 5
minutes many punches and flying kicks
later they end up on a bridge yuma
throws the thug off the bridge and kills
him meanwhile the commander and julius
get into an argument because julius
complains about the commander not
respecting him with his fashion sense i
wouldn't respect him either an injured
yuma then kills julius but he lets the
commander drive away easily now that all
the death riders are gone the
townspeople step out and start blaming
yuma ungrateful weirdos they think that
the commander will summon their leader
jw with his troops and kill the whole
town once he sees what yuma has done
yuma falls unconscious after telling the
town the end is near meanwhile the
commander is on his way to inform jw
when he's attacked by a bunch of wild
people who attacked yuma some time back
he fights them all and makes his way to
the death writer's base what was the
point of them attacking him who even are
these people
sarah and her son take care of yuma and
dress his wounds he regains
consciousness sometime later and uses
his super-duper magic electric gun thing
to heal his wounds sarah helps him with
it and the two are almost about to kiss
when her son comes in talk about wrong
timing the commander finally reaches the
base in the scorching heat a look inside
the base tells us that the death riders
are a lot more than mindless thugs we
thought they were the heavily guarded
place has many gang members and devices
the commander tells jw about a single
person killing all of the gang which
surprises jw he doesn't know how the
protagonist's logic works at the new
hope town everyone starts to pack their
bags and leave fearing the wrath of the
death rider's leader sarah tries to
convince them to fight back something
about faith and courage but the people
are smart they won't put their lives in
danger just to prove they're courageous
a man who lost his son to the writers a
middle-aged woman and a few other people
stay with sarah they prepare to fight
the death riders when they return the
riders drive back to the town in their
weird vehicles and come across coffins
of their former mates jw is devastated
to see his son's dead body he takes off
julius berry and puts it on himself
sarah finds yuma playing harmonica and
approaches him the two look at each
other and kiss
finally the death rat has come to the
town to find it deserted but jw because
of his leader instincts knows that the
people are hiding somewhere he spreads
out his men to look for them thankfully
this group of death writers is way
calmer and non-maniacal than the others
no one shouts or screams and everyone is
in appropriate bad guy uniform yuma had
set traps everywhere around the town so
when the thugs enter the tunnel it goes
up in flames then everything around them
starts to blow up the townspeople who
have been hiding till now take the
opportunity to start firing at the gang
a shootout ensues again i have lost
count of how many of these have happened
yuma is on the top of a tower where the
men approach him but he has everything
planned he has set explosives on the
stairs and has a rope with him the
explosive keeps the man away and he uses
the rope to easily walk down the tower
the explosion then blows up the whole
tower this doesn't look like cgi
impressive now only jw is left from the
death riders sarah's son hides inside
one of the vehicles which jw drives away
it's always some kid who messes up the
plan huma gets on another vehicle and
follows them and sarah gets on the third
vehicle and follows all of them jw
throws a bomb at yuma's vehicle and
blows it up but our protagonist manages
to survive he gets in sarah's car and
continues the pursuit he manages to get
on top of his vehicle then get on to
jw's he breaks into the driver's seat
and swears the vehicle making it roll
over sarah hits the vehicle creating a
loud explosion even after all that
happens no one dies instantly that's
right sarah's son comes out of the
vehicle unharmed yuma and jw are injured
af they lie on the ground beside each
other jw tries to get his hands on a gun
but yuma shoots him dead before he can
do anything do you guys remember the
maniac with a skirt and an antenna on he
brings yuma's bike to him yuma then
wraps jw in a cloth and puts him on his
bike sarah's son asks yuma who he is
good question but shouldn't he have
asked that way earlier yuma hands the
kid a piece of paper gets on his bike
and drives away with jw's body the paper
is then revealed to be a federal
advertisement that offers money to
anyone who can bring in jw dead or alive
so that's how the movie steel frontier
goes hope you like the video don't
forget to leave a like and comment i'll
see you next time